# 3Pi_IRCommBoard
A pcb design to create infra-red communication between Pololu 3Pi+ robots. 

Software is still very sketchy early work that has passed proof-of-concept.

## Important Considerations

- **IR Demodulator:** I tried a few IR demodulator chips and they are not all created equally.  In particular, those designed to receive bursts of transmission appear poorly suited.  When using ones for burst transmission, I observed that I had to wave the transmitter or receiver around to get a successful transmission (perhaps some inner circuitry reaches a saturation?).  Instead it is better to use those designed for continuous transmission. The Vishay **TSDP34138** (<a href="https://www.farnell.com/datasheets/2245004.pdf">datasheet</a>) seems to fit this and works well / reliably.  The datasheet specifies upto 4800 baud for a 38.4Khz carrier frequency.  If you want to reproduce this board, I recommend you use the same device, or be ready for some trials of different devices.
- **IR Demodulator Placement:** The IR Demodulator (IRD) is placed central on the PCB and facing upwards - this probably isn't the manufacturers recommendation for optimal performance.  I did consider placing 5 IRD's around the circumference of the PCB facing outward between the IR LEDs.  However, the IRD is one of the more expensive components, and so producing 100 of these PCBs would be significantly more expensive with 5 IRD per board.  I have tested this PCB with 1 upward IRD and it can reliably detect IR transmission from neighbours at roughly 30cm distance.  For communication between Pololu 3Pi+ robots, this is relatively "local" and sufficient.  However, it does mean a robot cannot identify from which direction a transmission was received.  In theory, I think a more advanced version of this board could supply VCC to 5 independent IRD via the arduino digital pins, and therefore poll the IRD around the circumference of the board by enabling each in turn, and so infer directionality.  But I haven't tried this. 
- **Programming the Pro Mini:** It is important to note that the programming of the Pro Mini will most often fail if the IR Demodulator is electrically connected.  Therefore, the circuit design has a jumper intended for a connecting removable sleeve, to allow the connection to be broken for programming.  Importantly, no IR messages can be received if this jumper is not closed with the sleeve.  
- **I2C requests from Master:** so far, it seems that the Master device has to request a specific number of bytes from the Slave device.  Because we don't necessarily know this before hand (and to take a short cut), the firmware has been written to append a `!` character to the end of the message string.  Therefore, the Master requests the maximum data length, and then parses for the `!` character.  After this, the data is gibberish.  In the future, it might be better to have a two step operation where the Master first asks how large the data to transfer is.  

## Bill of Materials (BOM)


